# Project-Spectra-Exo
I am leading the Engineering Project Spectra-Exo, which features a radical design of an Acer Nitro XV272U X1 (After further research into display panels, I am upgrading the donor monitor from the VG270U to the XV272U X1) with a custom aluminum exoskeleton in 2020-series by removing the original case. The reason for the need for such a radical design is the inherent flaw in most high-quality monitors available today, which is that they contain thermal traps made out of thin plastic material.

The unit operates at a native frequency of 200Hz; hence, the internal logic controller operates at a high temperature density. In normal conditions, it can be perceived that the air inside is stagnant. Hence, the problems associated with corruption of the IC as well as the instability associated with the signal can be encountered. The issue is solved by the application of a two-layered concept comprising a black acrylic mezzanine and Thermal Grizzly Minus Pad 8. Together, they produce a high-convection chimney effect that removes the heat from the logic boards to the air.

As a means of overcoming the structural load, the roll cage constructed of the black anodized 2020 aluminum extrusions is made around the fragile glass that measures 27 inches. It should be necessary to have a compression-fit cushioned channel to support the glass panel. Otherwise, stress fractures would be developed due to the use of metals and glasses. The high density EVA foam tape that has a thickness of 1mm is applied around the channel.

The design is electrically safe since all PCBs are mounted on nylon standoffs with M3. This reduces the chances of having a static risk and a physical disconnection of electronics.


The T-slot system allows me to directly attach the gas spring arm and additionally the custom hardware peripheral. The system is fully modular with M4 Sliding T-nuts. We are living in an era of disposable hardware wherein a defective plastic clip or a blown capacitor goes to the dump. Spectra Plan makes way for a modularized, and fixable hardware as exhibited in Spectra-Exo. This project has helped me develop the skills sets necessary in mechanical CAD, thermal management, and precision fabrication.
